# School-Management-Portal-
School Management and Accounting Software We like to challenge the quality of what we build to make it better. To do so, we try to make the product intuitive, beautiful, and user friendly. Innovation and hard work help to fulfill these requirements. I believe in order to innovate we need to think differently. A few months ago I discovered there was no open source free school management software that met my quality standards. I happen to know a bit of programming so I decided to make one. I also believe that working with more people can push the standard higher than working alone. So I decided to make it open source and free.Contribute Community contribution can make this product better!! See Contribution guideline before making any Pull request  We want testable softwares. So test cases are being written for this app too. You also can contribute by writing test case! To run Feature and Unit Tests use ./vendor/bin/phpunit and to run Browser Tests set APP_URL environment variable in your .env file. This value should match the URL you use to access your application in a browser. Then run php artisan dusk. License GNU General Public License v3.0  Features This software has following features:  Roles: Master, Admin, Teacher, Student, Librarian, Accountant Attendance Mark Registration Notice, Syllabus Library Exam Grade Accounts Messaging (uses CKEditor 5) Framework used Laravel 5.5 Bootstrap 3.3.7 Server Requirements PHP >= 7.0.0 OpenSSL PHP Extension PDO PHP Extension Mbstring PHP Extension Tokenizer PHP Extension XML PHP Extension How to Start Here are some basic steps to start using this application  Note: Instruction on cached data for Dashboard is given in Good to know segment below.  Run php composer.phar install for developer environment and run php composer.phar install --no-dev for production environment to install Laravel packages  Create .env file from .env.example and generate APP_KEY using php artisan key:generate  Set the database connection configuration and APP_ENV according to your application environment (e.g. local, production) in .env file  Laravel Page Speed Package is installed but not activated. If you want to use it to optimize your site automatically which results in a 35%+ optimization. You need to uncomment some lines from Kernel.php file and may need to run php artisan vendor:publish --provider="RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\ServiceProvider".  app/HTTP/Kernel.php   //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\InlineCss::class,  //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\ElideAttributes::class,  //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\InsertDNSPrefetch::class,  //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\RemoveComments::class,  //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\TrimUrls::class,  //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\RemoveQuotes::class,  //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\CollapseWhitespace::class, To create a Master, go to the database\seeds\UsersTableSeeder.php and change the name, the email and the password settings to your likings. Leave the other settings (role, active, verified) unchanged!  Laravel Passport package is included to support API. Key for Passport should be automatically generated by php artisan passport:keys from post-install-cmd script in composer.json or you have to run this manually and to remove this package just follow these steps  Remove it from composer.json require dependencies and remove command @php artisan passport:keys from post-install-cmd script Run composer update and composer dump-autoload. And all classes that relies on passport must be edited as well. The most common classes are: app\User.php model, remove the HasApiToken trait. app\Proiders\AuthServiceProvider, remove Passport::routes(); in your boot method. In config/auth.php, change your driver option for api from passport to api authentication To create the tables, run php artisan migrate.  If you don't want to use Passport package then remove the Passport Migrations in database migrations table and run command artisan migrate:refresh To seed the tables with fake data, use php artisan db:seed.  If you want to run the migration and the seeding together, use php artisan migrate:refresh --seed  You must seed database\seeds\UsersTableSeeder.php at least once in order to create the Master account. To do so, follow these steps:  comment all the seeders except $this->call(UsersTableSeeder::class); in database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php; then comment factory(App\User::class, 200)->create(); in UsersTableSeeder.php. So your files will look something like this:  In database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php:  ... //$this->call(SectionsTableSeeder::class); $this->call(UsersTableSeeder::class); //$this->call(AttendancesTableSeeder::class); ... In database\seeds\UsersTableSeeder.php:  ... //factory(App\User::class, 200)->create(); Laravel 5 log viewer is used to view Logs using a UI at 'example.com/logs' while in development environment.  Create a school and an admin Important: only a master can create a new school and its admins! Login at example.com\login using your Master account credentials Create a new school Create a new admin for the newly created school Manage a school Important: A master CANNOT manage a school's data! Login as admin at example.com\login Now add data to the school as required. Good to know In .env, turn APP_DEBUG to false for production environment. Remove Route::get('logs', '\Rap2hpoutre\LaravelLogViewer\LogViewerController@index'); from routes/web.php while in Production Environment. You can switch to and from maintenance mode by running php artisan up and php artisan down. Dashboard page contents(e.g. Student count, Teacher count, Notice, etc.) are cached because these are not frequently changed. If you don't want these to be cached, just remove the cache lines in index method in app\Http\Controller\HomeController.phplike the following example. So your edit would be something like this: From:  ... $classes = \Cache::remember('classes-'.$school_id, $minutes, function () use($school_id) {    return \App\Myclass::where('school_id', $school_id)                         ->pluck('id')                         ->toArray(); }); ... To:  ... $classes = \App\Myclass::where('school_id', $school_id)                         ->pluck('id')                         ->toArray(); ... You can do similar for other cache lines.
